---
layout: post
title:  "Ren received a NSF NRI award to work on Socially Adept Autonomous Driving"
date:   2019-08-07 00:00:00
categories: news
published: false
----------------

[Max Yi Ren], [Wenlong Zhang] and [Yezhou Yang] received a NSF National Robotics Initiative
award to work on Socially Adept Autonomous Driving.

### Title: NSF-NRI: Scalable and Customizable Intent Inference and Motion Planning for Socially-Adept Autonomous Vehicles

### Abstract:
This project will promote the progress of science, and advance the
national prosperity and safety, by tackling an important and challenging
problem for autonomous vehicles (AVs): interaction of AVs with
human-driven vehicles. Currently, there is a lack of theory that
allows an autonomous vehicle to interact with multiple surrounding
vehicles in a safe and socially-adept manner. This National Robotics
Initiative (NRI) project will address this critical need by developing
a novel algorithm framework for an autonomous vehicle to be able to
anticipate other vehicles’ behavior and customize its motion according
to the local driving culture. This project serves the national
interests by advancing knowledge in the fields of control
engineering, machine learning, and cognitive science.  The project
will also make an important step in making widely adopted autonomous
vehicles a reality, which promises to increase transportation system
efficiency and safety. Project results will be disseminated through
a project website, open-source simulation software, and public
datasets. The impacts of this project will be broadened through
various educational activities, including a new class on
collaborative autonomous driving, undergraduate research projects,
and outreach to the local community through lab tours.

This project aims at answering two fundamental research questions: 1)
what formalisms of intent inference and motion planning are capable of
creating socially-adept motions, and 2) what embodiment of these
formalisms can achieve scalability for multi-vehicle interactions and
customizability for changing driving cultures? To answer these
questions, the research team will pursue the following three
objectives. First, the project team will build a Bayesian game model to
represent vehicle interactions, and develop mechanistic intent
inference and motion planning policies. Second, a message passing
neural network will be developed to enable scalable intent inference
and motion prediction of multiple surrounding vehicles. Third, a
social attention mechanism will be developed that allows an autonomous
vehicle to actively prioritize its various control considerations,
e.g., safety and courtesy towards the surrounding vehicles. The
developed algorithms will be validated with real-world driving
scenarios such as intersections and highways in a driving simulator
designed through collaboration with autonomous vehicle manufacturers
and research institutes.

[Max Yi Ren]: /index.html
[Wenlong Zhang]: https://home.riselab.info/
[Yezhou Yang]: https://yezhouyang.engineering.asu.edu/