---
layout: post
title:  "Ren received Amazon AWS Machine Learning Research Award"
date:   2019-08-15 00:00:00
categories: news
----------------

[Max Yi Ren] and [Yezhou Yang] received Amazon AWS Machine Learning Research Award.

### Title: Robust Reinforcement Learning Against Trojans through Active Counterfactual Reasoning

### Abstract:
Vulnerability of neural networks under adversarial attacks has raised serious concerns and
 extensive research. Recent studies further exposed the risks of such vulnerability in 
 allowing Trojans attacks through data corruption. Such corruption can create backdoors 
 in vision models, e.g., to robustly trigger misclassification of traffic signs by
  painting pre-specified graffiti onto the signs; or in control models, e.g., to force
   misbehavior of a robot by showing it a pre-specified visual cue. Trojan attacks are 
   hard to be detected since the corruption has minimal influence on model performance 
   under benign inputs. This vulnerability to Trojans is intrinsic to models that 
   learn correlations without understanding causality. For example, a dog will 
   wrongfully react to the owner's ball-throwing pose even without observing the ball 
   throwing out, due to a learned correlation between arm-swinging and reward-earning. 
A smarter agent, however, will perform counterfactual reasoning, e.g., to test the 
strategy of running back to the owner without the ball, in order to identify the true 
cause of reward winning. This project aims to develop and verify a novel learning 
architecture, that enables active counterfactual reasoning during reinforcement 
learning, with a focus on improving robustness of controllers against Trojan attacks.
The project will leverage PIs' existing expertise in active vision and robust machine 
learning, and will use AWS DeepRacer as a demonstration platform.

[Max Yi Ren]: /index.html
[Yezhou Yang]: https://yezhouyang.engineering.asu.edu/