---
categories: productdesign_guideline
link: progress
layout: apd_default
title:  Business Plan (May 7th)
published: true
---
## Business Plan (May 7th)

## Business plan elements

  1. Business opportunity
      1. Business objective (why): 
      2. Product description (what)
      3. Market analysis (where)
      4. Capital and personnel resources (how)
    
  2. Financial data
      1. Capital equipment and supply list 
      2. Break-even analysis 
      3. Three-year summary of Pro-forma income and cost projections 
    
  3. Supporting documents
      1. Existing patents
      2. Technical analysis and benchmarking
      
## Explanation and Examples

### Market analysis

1. Use a figure to explain the market gap and where your product will fit
2. Qualitatively summarize your market study to support your product positioning

### Capital and personnel resources

1. Provide an estimate of the amount of investment you need. Explain how you will spend
this startup funding for your facilities and personnel.
2. Provide a logistic plan: Justify your office and fab locations, plans for research, 
development, production, employee training, marketing.

### Capital equipment and supply list

Provide a table with all initial and annual costs. Example:

| Iterm | Use | Cost (initial) | Cost (per year) | Cost (per part) | ... |
| ----  | --- | -------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --- |
| Electronic workstation | Manufacturing | $1,000 | | | |
| Line worker | Manufacturing | | | $0.3 | $18/hr, $0.3/part|
| Office material | Property | $14,900 | | | |
| Energy costs | Property | | $600 | | | |
| Total | | | | | |

### Break-even analysis

1. Use the [spreadsheet][1] for the calculation.
2. Take into account:
    1. Total investment cost
    2. Annual operating cost
    3. Annual income
    4. Interest Rate
    
### Three-year summary of Pro-forma income and cost projections
This is a profit-loss statement for the zero-th year and the first three years of operation. Example:

| Project quarter | 2017-1 | 2017-2 | 2017-3 | 2017-4 | 2018-1 | ... |
| --------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | --- |
| Qty sold        | 0      | 0      | 0      |        | 100    | ... |
| Investor contribution | | | | | | |
| Product revenue | | | | | | |
| Total income | | | | | | |
| Facility | | | | | | |
| Material costs | | | | | | |
| Manufacturing costs | | | | | | |
| Personnel costs | | | | | | |
| Total expenses | | | | | | |
| Qrtly cash balance | | | | | | |
| Running cash balance | | | | | | |
| After taxes | | | | | | |

### Existing patents
Provide existing patents (with patent numbers) and justify that your product will not breach these
patents. 

### Technical analysis and benchmarking
This contains analysis from the progress report.

More examples can be found [here][2]. These materials are from the Analytical Product Design class (2015)
at the University of Michigan.

[1]: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1sCL38r9I73seXU7IXAj6VPdroeFTddfsGBVgFXyvBMA/edit#gid=428714885
[2]: /_teaching/productdesign/businessplan_examples.pptx