---
categories: mechdesign_project
layout: mechdesign_default
title:  Course Project
published: false
---
# Course Project: Transmission Gear Box Design

## Project Description

Choose one of the following gear box design topics

1. A conventional 2-speed gear box for best 0-60 acceleration performance
2. A gear box for a hybrid bus with parallel architecture for the best fuel economy on FTP-75.

Prob. 1 involves more complicated gear box design. Prob. 2 requires you to learn more about HEV powertrain design and 
optimal control.

## Specifications

Compile the following list of specifications:

1. Weight and size - As small as possible
2. Material - Please study existing materials used for vehicle transmissions
3. Gear ratio - Gear ratios should be set to optimize the objectives (acceleration for Prob. 1 or fuel economy of Prob. 2)
4. Design configuration - Please study how gear box looks like (conventional or hybrid)
5. Weak link - Design the keys as the weak link of the gearbox, i.e., if anything would fail, it would be the keys in order to protect other parts
6. Engine/Motor inputs - For Prob. 1, define the engine max. torque curve and speed range; for Prob. 2, 
define both the engine and motor max. torque curves, efficiency maps, and speed ranges.
7. Life - 10 years continuous operation
8. Reliability - 99% for all parts
9. Factor of safety - Keys and shafts: n = 2; Bearing fatigue and static: n = 1; 
Gears surface fatigue: n = 1.2; Gears bending fatigue: n = 1.5; Others: n = 2.

## Project Deliverables

### Preliminary report
In the preliminary report, you will show evidence that you have learned the background information
that will allow you to conduct the necessary analysis and design. Information to be included are as follows.

For **Prob. 1**, please include the followings:

1. A schematic of a 2-speed gear box, with all elements included and numbered 
(gears, shafts, bearings, and keys)
2. A chosen engine represented by the max. torque curve and the rpm range
3. A chosen vehicle model represented by all necessary parameters for calculating the 0-60 acceleration performance.
This may include wheel radius, ground friction, and vehicle weight.
4. A free body diagram and the analysis that converts an engine torque into a vehicle acceleration value.
5. An initial program for calculating 0-60 based on settings from **2**, **3**, and **4**. 

For **Prob. 2**, please include the followings:

1. A schematic of a parallel architecture for HEV, with all elements included and numbered 
(gears, shafts, bearings, and keys)
2. A chosen engine represented by the max. torque curve, the rpm range, and the efficiency map
3. A chosen motor represented by the max. torque curve, the rpm range, and the efficiency map
4. A chosen vehicle model represented by all necessary parameters for calculating the 0-60 acceleration performance.
This may include wheel radius, ground friction, vehicle weight, coefficient of drag, etc.
5. A description on how the control strategy (engage and disengage of the motor) is determined. Please read the 
following paper for reference: [Paganelli (2002)](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Sebastien_Delprat/publication/3948100_Equivalent_consumption_minimization_strategy_for_parallel_hybrid_powertrains/links/0c960537dc3cb4f012000000/Equivalent-consumption-minimization-strategy-for-parallel-hybrid-powertrains.pdf)

**Note**: I will upload data and model files (engine, motor, optimal control module) after your preliminary report is due.
However, using your own data and writing your own code will be strongly encouraged. 

### Instructions on Submissions

1. Please submit a **single PDF** with the **exact** title **MEE342 %project%** where %project% is "Preliminary", "Progress",
or "Final", to yiren@asu.edu.

2. I will only grade the final report. **However**, my impression about your preliminary and progress report will affect
 your grade indirectly.



 