---
categories: mechdesign_homework
layout: mechdesign_default
title:  Homework 5
published: true
---
<style TYPE="text/css">
code.has-jax {font: inherit; font-size: 100%; background: inherit; border: inherit;}
</style>
<script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
MathJax.Hub.Config({
    tex2jax: {
        inlineMath: [['$','$'], ['\\(','\\)']],
        skipTags: ['script', 'noscript', 'style', 'textarea', 'pre'] // removed 'code' entry
    }
});
MathJax.Hub.Queue(function() {
    var all = MathJax.Hub.getAllJax(), i;
    for(i = 0; i < all.length; i += 1) {
        all[i].SourceElement().parentNode.className += ' has-jax';
    }
});
</script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="http://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML"></script>


### Instructions

1. This homework is **DUE on Apr 11**.
2. **Please submit this homework in class**.

### Problem 1 (10 Points)

A 17-tooth spur pinion has a diametral pitch of 8 teeth/in, runs at 1120rpm, and drives a
gear at a speed of 544rpm. Find the number of teeth on the gear and the theoretical
center-to-center distance.

### Problem 2 (10 Points)
For a spur gearset with $$\phi$$ = 20 deg, while avoiding interference, find: the smallest pinion tooth
count at a ratio $$m = N_G/N_P = 2.5$$, and the largest gear tooth count possible with this pinion.

### Problem 3 (20 Points)
A compound reverted gear train is to be designed as a speed increaser to provide a total
increase of speed of exactly 45 to 1. With a 20 deg pressure angle, specify appropriate numbers
of teeth to minimize the gearbox size while avoiding the interference problem in the teeth.

### Problem 4 (20 Points)
A commercial enclosed gear drive consists of a 20 deg spur pinion having 16 teeth driving
a 48-tooth gear. The pinion speed is 300rev/min, the face width 2in, and the diametral pitch
6 teeth/in. The gears are grade 1 steel, through-hardened at 200 Brinell, made to No. 6
quality standards, uncrowned, and are to be accurately and rigidly mounted. Assume a pinion
life of $$10^8$$ cycles and a reliability of 0.90. Determine the AGMA bending and contact stresses
and the corresponding factors of safety if 5hp is to be transmitted.

### Problem 5 (20 Points)
A 57-tooth spur gear is in mesh with a 23-tooth pinion. It is known that $$\phi$$ = 20 deg. 
The gearset transmits 125hp at 1000rpm pinion speed. Size the spur gears for a bending failure safety
factor of at least 2 assuming a steady torque, full-depth teeth, $$Q_y = 9$$, an AISI 4140 steel
pinion ($$S_t$$ = 40ksi), and a class 40 cast iron gear ($$S_k$$ = 13ksi). 
The desired reliability is $$99.9\%$$
with a life of $$10^5$$. Take $$K_o = 1$$, $$(Y_N)_P = 3.517N^{-0.0817}$$ 
and $$(Y_N)_G = 6.1514N^{-0.1192} $$.

### Problem 6 (20 Points)
Size the spur gears from problem 5 for a surface failure safety factor of at least 2. It is known
that $$Z_N = 2.466N^{-0.056}$$ for both the pinion and the gear. 
The pinion material has $$S_c = 165ksi$$,
$$H_B = 230$$ and gear material has $$S_c = 80ksi$$ and $$H_B = 200$$.